add direct pod IP troubleshooting guide for multicluster (#9911)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/multicluster/index.md

{{< /text >}}

Verify that there is a helloworld pod running in `cluster2`, using the `-o wide` flag, so we can get the Pod IP:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl --context="${CTX_CLUSTER2}" -n uninjected-sample get pod -o wide
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP           NODE     NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-z28p5    1/1     Running   0          43s   10.100.0.1   node-1   <none>           <none>
sleep-557747455f-jdsd8           1/1     Running   0          41s   10.100.0.2   node-2   <none>           <none>
{{< /text >}}

Take note of the `IP` column for `helloworld`. In this case, it is `10.100.0.1`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ REMOTE_POD_IP=10.100.0.1
{{< /text >}}

Next, attempt to send traffic from the `sleep` pod in `cluster1` directly to this Pod IP:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" -n uninjected-sample -c sleep \
    "$(kubectl get pod --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" -n uninjected-sample -l \
    app=sleep -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')" \
    -- curl -sS $REMOTE_POD_IP:5000/hello
Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-z28p5
{{< /text >}}

> If successful, there should responses only from `helloworld-v2`. Repeat the steps, but send traffic from `cluster2`

Author: ```suggestion
If successful, there should be responses only from `helloworld-v2`. Repeat the steps, but send traffic from `cluster2`
```

There are many possible causes to the problem:

### Connectivity and firewall issues

In some environments it may not be apparent that a firewall is blocking traffic between your clusters. It's possible
that `ICMP` (ping) traffic may succeed, but HTTP and other types of traffic do not. This can appear as a timeout, or 
in some cases a more confusing error such as:

{{< text plain >}}
upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers. reset reason: local reset, transport failure reason: TLS error: 268435612:SSL routines:OPENSSL_internal:HTTP_REQUEST
{{< /text >}}

While Istio provides service discovery capabilities to make it easier, cross-cluster traffic should still succeed

> if pods in each cluster are on a single network without Istio. To rule out issues with TLS/mTLS, we can do a manual
> traffic test using pods without an Istio sidecar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if pods in each cluster are on a single network without Istio. To rule out issues with TLS/mTLS, you can do a manual
traffic test using pods without Istio sidecars.
```

In each cluster, create a new namespace for this test. Do _not_ enable sidecar injection:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" namespace uninjected-sample
$ kubectl create --context="${CTX_CLUSTER2}" namespace uninjected-sample
{{< /text >}}

Then deploy the same apps used in [verify multicluster installation](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/verify/):

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" \
    -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml \
    -l service=helloworld -n uninjected-sample
$ kubectl apply --context="${CTX_CLUSTER2}" \
    -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml \
    -l service=helloworld -n uninjected-sample
$ kubectl apply --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" \
    -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml \
    -l version=v1 -n uninjected-sample
$ kubectl apply --context="${CTX_CLUSTER2}" \
    -f samples/helloworld/helloworld.yaml \
    -l version=v2 -n uninjected-sample
$ kubectl apply --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" \
    -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml -n uninjected-sample
$ kubectl apply --context="${CTX_CLUSTER2}" \
    -f samples/sleep/sleep.yaml -n uninjected-sample

> {{ < /text >}}

Reviewer 2: s/{{ </{{<

Text block doesn't end if you look at the deploy output

> {{ < /text >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< /text >}}
```

Verify that there is a helloworld pod running in `cluster2`, using the `-o wide` flag, so we can get the Pod IP:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl --context="${CTX_CLUSTER2}" -n uninjected-sample get pod -o wide
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP           NODE     NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-z28p5    1/1     Running   0          43s   10.100.0.1   node-1   <none>           <none>
sleep-557747455f-jdsd8           1/1     Running   0          41s   10.100.0.2   node-2   <none>           <none>
{{< /text >}}

Take note of the `IP` column for `helloworld`. In this case, it is `10.100.0.1`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ REMOTE_POD_IP=10.100.0.1
{{< /text >}}

Next, attempt to send traffic from the `sleep` pod in `cluster1` directly to this Pod IP:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl exec --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" -n uninjected-sample -c sleep \
    "$(kubectl get pod --context="${CTX_CLUSTER1}" -n uninjected-sample -l \
    app=sleep -o jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}')" \
    -- curl -sS $REMOTE_POD_IP:5000/hello
Hello version: v2, instance: helloworld-v2-54df5f84b-z28p5
{{< /text >}}

> If successful, you should get only responsed from `helloworld-v2`. Repeat the steps, but send traffic from `cluster2`

Reviewer 2: s/responsed/responses

Reviewer 2: This will fix the one spelling error still in the linter.

There are many possible causes to the problem:

### Connectivity and firewall issues

In some environments it may not be apparent that a firewall is blocking traffic between your clusters. It's possible
that `ICMP` (ping) traffic may succeed, but HTTP and other types of traffic do not. This can appear as a timeout, or 
in some cases a more confusing error such as:

{{< text >}}
upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers. reset reason: local reset, transport failure reason: TLS error: 268435612:SSL routines:OPENSSL_internal:HTTP_REQUEST
{{< /text >}}

While Istio provides service discovery capabilities to make it easier, cross-cluster traffic should still succeed
if pods in each cluster are on a single network without Istio. To rule out issues with TLS/mTLS, we can do a manual

> traffic test on non-sidecared pods.

Reviewer 3: nit: I am not a docs writer but seems like `sidecared` may not be the right phrase here. Not sure what is better though - pods without a sidecar proxy?

Author: +1
